HTML Standard, https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/parsing.html, fetched 2026-09-24 with curl, tags stripped.

== 13.2.5.42 Markup declaration open state
  13.2.5.42 Markup declaration open state

  
  If the next few characters are:

  Two U+002D HYPHEN-MINUS characters (-)Consume those two characters, create a comment token whose data is the empty string, and
   switch to the comment start state.ASCII case-insensitive match for "DOCTYPE"Consume those characters and switch to the DOCTYPE state."[CDATA["Consume those characters. If there is an adjusted current node and it is not
   an element in the HTML namespace, then switch to the CDATA section
   state. Otherwise, this is a cdata-in-html-content parse
   error. Create a comment token whose data is "[CDATA[". Switch to
   the bogus comment state.Anything elseThis is an incorrectly-opened-comment
   parse error. Create a comment token whose data is the empty string. Switch to the
   bogus comment state (don't consume anything in the current state).
  



== 13.2.6 Tree construction: the dispatcher and the integration points
  As each token is emitted from the tokenizer, the user agent must follow the appropriate steps
  from the following list, known as the tree construction dispatcher:

  If the stack of open elements is emptyIf the adjusted current node is an element in the HTML namespaceIf the adjusted current node is a MathML text integration point and the token is a start tag who
se tag name is neither "mglyph" nor "malignmark"If the adjusted current node is a MathML text integration point and the token is a character tokenIf the adjusted current node is a MathML annotation-xm
l element and the token is a start tag whose tag name is "svg"If the adjusted current node is an HTML integration point and the token is a start tagIf the adjusted current node is an HTML integration 
point and the token is a character tokenIf the token is an end-of-file tokenProcess the token according to the rules given in the section corresponding to the current
   insertion mode in HTML content.OtherwiseProcess the token according to the rules given in the section for parsing tokens in foreign content.
  

  
  The next token is the token that is about to be processed by the tree
  construction dispatcher (even if the token is subsequently just ignored).
  

  
  A node is a MathML text integration point if it is one of the following
  elements:

  A MathML mi elementA MathML mo elementA MathML mn elementA MathML ms elementA MathML mtext element
  

  
  A node is an HTML integration point if it is one of the following elements:

  A MathML annotation-xml element whose start tag token had an
   attribute with the name "encoding" whose value was an ASCII case-insensitive match
   for "text/html"A MathML annotation-xml element whose start tag token had an
   attribute with the name "encoding" whose value was an ASCII case-insensitive match
   for "application/xhtml+xml"An SVG foreignObject elementAn SVG desc elementAn SVG title element
  

  If the node in question is the parser's fragment context element,
  then the start tag token for that element is the "fake" token created by the HTML fragment
  parsing algorithm.

== 13.2.6.5 foreign content: the br/p end tag rule
   A start tag whose tag name is one of:  "b", "big", "blockquote", "body", "br", "center", "code", "dd", "div", "dl", "dt", "em", "embed", "h1", "h2", "h3", "h4", "h5", "h6", "head", "hr", "i", "img",
   "li", "listing",
   "menu", "meta", "nobr", "ol", "p", "pre", "ruby", "s",  "small", "span", "strong", "strike",  "sub",
   "sup", "table", "tt", "u", "ul", "var"A start tag whose tag name is "font", if the token has any attributes named "color", "face",
   or "size"An end tag whose tag name is "br", "p"
    Parse error.

    While the current node is not a MathML text integration point, an
    HTML integration point, or an element in the HTML namespace, pop
    elements from the stack of open elements.

    Reprocess the token according to the rules given in the section corresponding to the current
    insertion mode in HTML content.
   Any other start tag

== 13.2.6.5 foreign content: any other end tag
   Any other end tag
    Run these steps:

    Initialize node to be the current node (the bottommost
     node of the stack).If node's tag name, converted to ASCII lowercase, is
     not the same as the tag name of the token, then this is a parse error.Loop: If node is the topmost element in the stack of
     open elements, then return. (fragment case)If node's tag name, converted to ASCII lowercase, is
     the same as the tag name of the token, pop elements from the stack of open
     elements until node has been popped from the stack, and then return.Set node to the previous entry in the stack of open
     elements.If node is not an element in the HTML namespace, return
     to the step labeled loop.Otherwise, process the token according to the rules given in the section corresponding
     to the current insertion mode in HTML content.
   
  


== 13.4 fragment parsing: the fake start tag token
   stack of template insertion modes so that it is the new current template
   insertion mode.
    Create a start tag token whose name is the local name of context and whose attributes are the attributes of
    context.

    Let this start tag token be the start tag token of context; e.g. for the purposes of determining if it is
